--- PAGE 1 ---
Vision Transformers: State of the Art and Research Challenges
Bo-Kai Ruan1 , Hong-Han Shuai1 , Wen-Huang Cheng1
1National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University
justin.ee08@nycu.edu.tw, hhshuai@nycu.edu.tw, whcheng@nycu.edu.tw
Abstract
Transformers have achieved great success in natu-
ral language processing. Due to the powerful ca-
pability of self-attention mechanism in transform-
ers, researchers develop the vision transformers for
a variety of computer vision tasks, such as image
recognition, object detection, image segmentation,
pose estimation, and 3D reconstruction. This pa-
per presents a comprehensive overview of the lit-
erature on different architecture designs and train-
ing tricks (including self-supervised learning) for
vision transformers. Our goal is to provide a sys-
tematic review with the open research opportuni-
ties.
1 Introduction
Transformers [Vaswani et al., 2017] have originally achieved
a great success in natural language processing [Devlin et al.,
2018; Radford et al., 2018] and can be adopted in various ap-
plications, including sentiment classiﬁcation, machine trans-
lation, word prediction, and summarization. The key feature
of transformers is the self-attention mechanism, which helps
a model learn the global contexts and enables the model to
acquire the long-range dependencies. Motivated by the great
success in natural language processing, transformers have
been adopted by computer vision tasks, leading to the devel-
opment of vision transformers. Vision transformers have be-
come prevalent in these years and have reached considerable
success in many ﬁelds such as image classiﬁcation [Doso-
vitskiy et al. , 2021; Liu et al. , 2021 ], video classiﬁcation
[Arnab et al. , 2021 ], object detection [Carion et al. , 2020;
Fang et al., 2021], semantic segmentation [Xie et al., 2021a;
Li et al., 2021b], and pose estimation [Zhu et al., 2021].
Despite the success of the architecture, there are still sev-
eral drawbacks which should be addressed, e.g., data-hungry,
lack of locality and cross-patch information. Therefore, a re-
cent line of research has been proposed to further enhance
vision transformers. This survey introduces important ideas
to solve the problems and aims to shed light on these top-
ics for future research. In addition, as self-supervised learn-
ing methods play an important role in vision transformers,
we also present several self-supervised learning methods em-
ployed on vision transformers. The rest of the paper is or-
ganized as follows. We start with the preliminary of trans-
formers and vision transformers, and then introduce variant
architectures of vision transformers. Afterward, the training
tricks used in vision transformers are presented, together with
the self-supervised learning. Finally, we conclude this paper
and discuss the future research directions and challenges.
2 Preliminary
2.1 Self-attention
The attention mechanism is one of the most beneﬁcial break-
throughs in deep learning research, which measures the im-
portance of a feature that contributes to the ﬁnal results. Us-
ing an attention mechanism often teaches a model to concen-
trate on speciﬁc features. For self-attention, the input and
the output size are the same, while the self-attention mecha-
nism allows the interaction between the inputs and discovers
which they should pay more attention to. Afterward, each
output is enhanced by the weighted inputs according to the
attention scores. For instance, given a sentence stating “a dog
is saved from pond after it fell through the ice,” self-attention
can enhance the embedding of “it” by attending to “dog”. The
self-attention is designed to help the model learn the global
contexts under the property of long-range dependencies.
Fig. 1a illustrates the self-attention module. Let X ∈
RL×d denote a sequence of vectors (x1,x 2,··· ,x L), where
d is the embedding dimension of each vector. To help the
model learn the relations between each vector, query, key,
and value matrices are projected from X with linear layers
and denoted by Q,K, andV , respectively. For instance, the
query matrix is obtained by projecting X with a linear layer
Wq, i.e.,Q =XW q. Speciﬁcally, the attention weightsE are
calculated by the normalized product of Q andK T with the
softmax function, i.e.,
E = softmax(QK T
√
d
). (1)
Softmax function normalizes the attention weights of each
query-key pair within (0, 1), where 1 means the most impor-
tant, and 0 means useless information. Finally, the output
featuresO are enhanced by applying the attention weightsE
toV as follows:
O = Attention(Q,K,V ) = EV = softmax(QK T
√
d
)V. (2)
arXiv:2207.03041v1  [cs.CV]  7 Jul 2022

--- PAGE 2 ---
x Transform
Q
K
V
Matrix 
Mul Scale Softmax Matrix 
Mul
(a)
Image∈ℝH×W Patches ∈ℝP2×H/P×W/P
Input ∈ℝ(H/P×W/P+1)×d
Transformer Encoder
Patch Emb.
cls token
Pos. Emb.
Flatten + Transpose + Projection
(b)
Figure 1: Illustration of (a) self-attention and (b) image to sequence
with P = 3, C = 1 and embedding dimension d.
Multi-Head Attention. In order to learn variant repre-
sentations at different positions, the input X is trans-
formed intonh different representations (heads), denoted by
h1,··· ,h i,··· ,h nh. The attention is ﬁrst computed for each
head hi with Qi, K i, and V i with projection matrices W i
q,
W i
k, andW i
v, respectively.
hi = Attention(Qi,K i,V i). (3)
Afterward, all the heads are concatenated to form the multi-
head representationsH as follows:
H = Concat(h1,h 2,...,h nh ). (4)
Finally,H is transformed back to dimensiond with projection
matrix W O, i.e., O = HW O. As the number of relations
between inputs is usually unknown, multi-head attention is
commonly-used to capture different relations between input
elements in a data-driven manner.
2.2 Transformer
Transformer, proposed by Vaswani et al. [Vaswani et al. ,
2017], are ubiquitous in NLP tasks [Devlin et al. , 2018;
Brown et al. , 2020; Peyrard et al. , 2021]. Fig. 2 illustrates
the architecture of Transformer. A single transformer block
can be separated into Encoder and Decoder, which both can
be further decomposed into 1) self-attention, 2) Position-wise
Feed-Forward Networks, and 3) positional encoding.
Position-wise Feed-Forward Networks. Feed-Forward
Networks (FFN) are mainly composed of Fully-Connected
layers and can be written in:
FFN(X) = δ(XW 1 +b1)W2 +b2, (5)
where W1∈ Rd×h and W2∈ Rh×d are the weight and b1
andb2 are the bias terms. δ is ReLU activation function.h is
the hidden dimension and is usually set to 4d.
Inputs
Embedding
Multi-head 
Attention
Add & Norm
FFN
Add & Norm
Embedding
Outputs
Multi-head 
Attention
Add & Norm
Multi-head 
Attention
Add & Norm
FFN
Add & Norm
⨁ ⨁∼ ∼Positional 
Encoding
Positional 
Encoding
Encoder
Decoder
Linear & 
Softmax
VKQ VKQ
VKQ
Figure 2: Architecture of Transformer.
Positional Encoding. Since the self-attention relaxes the
sequential order, transformers use positional encoding to
maintain the ordinal information. The author proposes to use
sine and cosine functions with different frequencies to derive
the positional encoding, which allows the model to learn the
relative positions since any positional encoding can be lin-
early combined by other positional encodings. Speciﬁcally,
thei-th dimension of the positional encoding at positionpos,
denoted by PE(pos,i) can be calculated as follows:
PE(pos,i) =
{sin(pos/10000i/d) ifi is even,
cos(pos/10000(i−1)/d) otherwise, (6)
whered is the dimension of the input features.
Encoder . A single encoder block has two sub-layers, i.e.,
multi-head attention and position-wise feed-forward net-
works. Each sub-layer is followed by residual connection[He
et al., 2016] and layer normalization [Ba et al., 2016]. The
outputs of the encoder will be sent into the decoder as K,V
in the second multi-head attention layer.
Decoder . Each decoder block is made by three sub-layers.
The ﬁrst two layers are multi-head attention blocks, and the
ﬁnal one is position-wise feed-forward networks. Similar to
encoder block, all three layers are followed by residual con-
nection and layer normalization as well. Since the decoder is
auto-regressive, i.e., sequentially predicting a new result only
based on previous predictions, the multi-head attention layers
in the decoder utilize the mask operation to only attend the
predicted results for preventing the violation of causality.
2.3 Vision Transformer (ViT)
ViT [Dosovitskiy et al. , 2021 ] replaces all the CNN struc-
tures with several transformer layers and reaches state of the

--- PAGE 3 ---
art performance on image recognition and are known as the
pioneer of vision transformers. ViT contains three segments:
1) patch and positional embedding, 2) Transformer encoder,
and 3) multi-layer perceptron (MLP) head.
Patch and Positional Embedding. In order to transform
an image X∈ RC×H×W into a 1D sequence of vectors, an
image will be transformed into Xp ∈ RN ×(P 2C) as illus-
trated in Fig. 1b, whereP×P is the resolution of each patch,
and the number of patches is N = HW/P 2. The patches
are then projected into patch embeddings by a linear layer.
Akin to BERT [Devlin et al., 2018], a learnable class token
xcls∈ R1×(P 2C) is added to Xp. Afterward, the positional
embeddings are added to the output [xcls;Xp] to obtain the
positional information.
Transformer Encoder . Instead of using both encoder and
decoder, ViT only utilizes the Transformer encoder since the
goal is to ﬁnd a better representation rather than autoregres-
sive prediction. The image patches are transformed into se-
quences and then sent into the encoder. The only difference
is that the Layer Normalization is added before the sub-layers
(pre-norm) [Xiong et al., 2020].
Class Tokens. The class token is trained to include the class
information and can be used to represent the entire features.
Therefore, it can be used to classify the data into different
categories.
MLP Head. MLP head is commonly-used for the down-
stream tasks. Speciﬁcally, letZ = [Z0,Z 1,··· ,Z N ] denotes
the output of the Transformer encoder. As the class token
prepended to the input sequence can be regarded as the im-
age representation, the ﬁnal result y is determined based on
the ﬁrst token of the outputZ0 from encoders through a single
MLP layer, i.e.,
Z = TransEncoder([xcls;Xp]), (7)
y = MLP(Z0). (8)
3 Variant Architectures
Despite the promising performance of ViT, it still suffers from
several issues. For instance, ViT requires to be trained on
a large dataset. As ViT is initially trained on a JFT dataset
[Sun et al. , 2017] with≈ 300M images before being ﬁne-
tuned on ImageNet (≈ 1.2M images) [Russakovsky et al. ,
2015]. If the dataset is insufﬁcient, the model may perform
worse than CNN-based approaches. Although the pre-trained
weights can be used on various tasks, many datasets are not
transferable or even with an inferior performance. Moreover,
ViT is not a general-purpose backbone since it is only suitable
for image classiﬁcation but not for the dense prediction, such
as object detection and image segmentation, due to the patch
partitions.
Fig. 3 shows the taxonomy of vision transformers with
three mainstream directions. Speciﬁcally, Sec. 3.1 ﬁrst in-
troduces the locality-based models, which manage to add the
locality into the architectures. Next, feature-based models
are introduced in Sec. 3.2, which aim to diversify the fea-
ture representations. Finally, hierarchical-based models are
Vanilla Version (Sec 2.3)ViT
Locality-based (Sec 3.1)Adding inductive bias
Sequence Pooling
CNN in Attn.
CNN in FFN
DeiT, ConViT
CCT
CeiTLeViT, CvT
LocalViT
Hierarchical-based (Sec 3.3)Local window attention
Tree Structure
Patch MergingGlobal window attention
Pooling layer in FFN
SwinT
NexT
PVTTwins-SVT
PiT
Feature-based (Sec 3.2)Overlapping patchesRegenerating attn. mapT2T-ViTDeepViT
Others (Sec 3.4)Layer-Scale Normalization
Improving RobustnessDual-branch for mutli-scale
Cross Covariance Attn.
CaiT
RVTCrossViT
XCiT
Taxonomy ofVision Transformers
Self-supervised (Sec 5)SiT, MoCoV3, DINO, MoBY , EsViT, BEiT, MAE
CNN as Patch and Pos. Emb.
Figure 3: Taxonomy of Vision Transformers.
presented in Sec. 3.3, which reduce the feature size layer-by-
layer to increase the inference speed. Some architectures that
are not classiﬁed into the above categories are included in
Sec. 3.4. Please note that these models are put into certain
categories, but these categories are not mutual-exclusive.
3.1 Locality-based Models
ViT, which lacks locality and translation equivalence, usually
performs worse than CNN. Therefore, researchers start to in-
clude the CNN structures into the vision transformer since the
convolution kernels help the model capture the local informa-
tion. As such, adding locality from CNN improves the data
efﬁciency of vision transformers, resulting in a better perfor-
mance on a small dataset. In the following, we introduce sev-
eral approaches considering the locality.
DeiT [Touvron et al. , 2021a ] uses a CNN as a teacher
model to train a vision transformer, which utilizes knowledge
distillation [Hinton et al., 2015] to transfer the inductive bias
to a vision transformer and applies stronger data augmenta-
tion for input data. This approach allows others to train a
vision transformer from scratch without the requirement of
pre-training on a large dataset.
ConViT [d’Ascoli et al., 2021] is similar to DeiT as Con-
ViT also combines the inductive bias of CNN into models. In-
stead of using knowledge distillation, ConViT includesGated
Positional Self-attention (GPSA), which can be initialized as
a convolutional layer [Cordonnier et al., 2020] for capturing
the local information at the beginning of the training stage.
As such, ConViT can utilize the advantages of soft inductive
bias of CNN without being limited to CNN. In other words,
GPSA allows vision transformers to be the same as CNN to
improve the data efﬁciency on small datasets but can be better
than CNN when there are inﬁnite data used in training.
LeViT [Graham et al. , 2021 ] gets the embeddings from
four convolutional layers, which the model can extract the
local features at the beginning and also reduce the input size.

--- PAGE 4 ---
On top of that, LeViT further lowers the input size in some
attention blocks, which speeds up the inference time. These
advantages help strike the balance between accuracy, data ef-
ﬁciency and the training speed.
CeiT [Yuan et al. , 2021a] obtains the embedding features
directly from convolutional blocks to add the locality in the
beginning of the model, similar to LeViT. Moreover, the au-
thors include a depth-wise convolutional layer in FFN to en-
courage the model to extract the local features. In order
to exchange the class information in different layers, CeiT
utilizes Layer-wise Class-token Attention to collect different
class representations by computing the self-attention on class
tokens.
CvT [Yuan et al., 2021a] also obtains the embeddings with
convolutional layers. Besides, CvT uses convolutional layers
to create query, key, and value before self-attention operation,
which provides the local spatial information. Furthermore,
CvT also shrinks the size of the key and the value by using
stride = 2 to accelerate the computation.
LocalViT [Li et al., 2021c] is designed to use convolutional
layers in FFN to extract the local features in every transformer
blocks. The authors also try to apply different activation func-
tions (ReLU6, h-swish) and architectures (SE-Block, ECA
module) in FFN layers to improve the performance.
CCT [Hassani et al. , 2021] is proposed to solve the data-
hungry problem to make vision transformers perform well on
small datasets. Speciﬁcally, CCT gets the embeddings with
convolutional layers and makes the input shape ﬂexible by
removing the positional embeddings. On top of that, CCT in-
corporates the Sequence Pooling at the end of the transformer
layers to compute the weights of the output sequence.
3.2 Featured-based Models
These models put their efforts on diversifying the features,
e.g., token maps, attention maps in vision transformers. Hav-
ing distinct feature maps indicates that the model can extract
various features, which allows the model to perform well.
DeepViT [Zhou et al., 2021] is created after the authors ex-
amine the attention maps of ViT and ﬁnd out that the atten-
tion collapsing takes place in the deeper layer. This problem
hinders the model to be representative and would lower the
performance. The authors alter the self-attention layers and
provide a learnable transformation matrix after the attention
layer to address the issue by stimulating the model to generate
a new set of attention maps.
T2T-ViT [Yuan et al., 2021b] is designed after the authors
observe the feature maps reshaped from the tokens and point
out that most of the token maps are meaningless in ViT. To
improve the diversity of the token maps, the authors inserts
a T2T-module in the beginning of the model. T2T-module is
made up of few T2T-Transformers. These T2T-Transformers
can be viewed as the original transformer layers or can be re-
placed by the Performer used in [Choromanski et al., 2021].
Between the T2T-Transformers is the T2T-process, which
crops the images into several overlapping patches. The over-
lapping strategy enables the model to share the information
between the neighbors to improve the features diversity.
3.3 Hierarchical-based Models
The original version of ViT is notorious for its heavy com-
putation. Signiﬁcantly, the cost raises when the input size
increases. Therefore, decreasing the feature size would def-
initely help reduce the training time. Below are some ap-
proaches to solve this issue.
PVT [Wang et al. , 2021 ] is mainly designed for solving
dense prediction problems (e.g., object detection and seman-
tic segmentation). It uses Spatial Reduction Layer to reduce
the computation by decreasing the dimension of K and V .
The feature size is reduced by a patch embedding layer at
the beginning of each stage. Due to its pyramid structure,
the model can generate multi-scale feature maps and can be
trained faster with its smaller feature size.
PiT [Heo et al., 2021] includes Pooling Layer, which uses
a depth-wise convolutional layer to achieve the dimension re-
duction. The authors also test PiT on different robustness
benchmarks and get outstanding performance.
Swin-Transformer [Liu et al., 2021] is proposed to derive
a general-purpose backbone based on ViT, which can be used
for different applications, e.g., image classiﬁcation and se-
mantic segmentation. Since applying self-attention pixel-by-
pixel results in a tremendous computation complexity, Swin-
Transformer forms a hierarchical structure, which merges
patches after each Swin-Transformer block and therefore has
approximate linear computation time complexity to input im-
age size due to the computation of self-attention only within
each local shifted window.
Twins-SVT [Chu et al., 2021] also computes the attention
within a shifted window, while the global attention is evalu-
ated after the local window attention. This helps each win-
dow retains the outside-window information, similar to the
overlapping strategy. Likewise, the patches are merged at the
beginning of the stages to form the hierarchical shape.
NexT [Zhang et al., 2021] is created on a different strategy
to perform the hierarchical computation. Speciﬁcally, an im-
age is ﬁrst partitioned inton blocks and every four blocks are
merged after a transformer layer. Moreover, Gradient-based
Class-aware Tree-traversal is proposed to visualize the most
critical path from child to root, which reveals how the model
makes the decision given an input image. It is worth noting
that NexT can be used to generate images by turning the tree
upside down due to its tree structure.
3.4 Others
In the following, we introduce several promising directions
for improving ViT which are not classiﬁed before.
CrossViT [Chen et al., 2021a] can extract multi-scale fea-
tures from two branches. These branches are L-Branch and
S-Branch, where the former uses a larger patch size and the
latter uses a smaller patch size. By using the dual-branch
structure, the model is able to obtain different scales of spa-
tial information. To fuse the spatial information between the
branches, Cross Attention is applied by inserting the class to-
ken from one to the other.

--- PAGE 5 ---
RVT [Mao et al., 2021] is designed after studying different
components in ViT with regards to the robustness, e.g., ac-
curacy under adversarial attacks. Based on the results, RVT
decides to 1) remove the class token, which is not important
to a vision transformer, by averaging the features and 2) add
CNN to the embedding and the FFN layers for increasing lo-
cality and 3) use more attention heads for obtaining different
features. Moreover, the original self-attention is replaced by
Position-Aware Attention Scaling (PAAS), which adds a learn-
able matrix to the self-attention for showing the importance
of eachQ-K pair. PAAS is proved to suppress the unrelated
signal in the noise input. Moreover, Patch-wise Augmenta-
tion applies different augmentations on different patches to
diversify the training data.
CaiT [Touvron et al. , 2021b ] employs the normalization
with LayerScale, which uses learnable factors to adaptively
normalize the features. The normalization speeds up the con-
verge rate and allows the deep model to be trained well. CaiT
also includes Class Attention Layer for computing the atten-
tion between the class embedding and the overall features to
have better knowledge on the inputs.
XCiT [Ali et al., 2021] is proposed to reduce the time com-
plexity of the self-attention. The reduction is done by Cross-
Covariance Attention , which uses the transposed version of
self-attention, i.e., the self-attention is computed on the fea-
ture channels but not on the tokens. As such, the time com-
plexity is reduced from O(N 2d) to O(N 2d/h). Moreover,
Local Patch Interaction Block is employed to use depth-wise
convolutional networks to further extract the information be-
tween different patches.
4 Training Tricks for Vision Transformer
To better train a vision transformer, several tricks are pro-
posed to increase the diversity of the data and to improve the
generality of the model.
Data Augmentation is used to increase the diversity of
training data, e.g., translation, cropping, which help a model
learn the main features by altering the input patterns. To ﬁnd
out the best combination for a variety of datasets, AutoAug-
ment [Cubuk et al., 2019] and RandAugment [Cubuk et al.,
2020] are designed to search for a better combination. These
augmentation strategies are proved to be transferable to dif-
ferent datasets.
Exponential moving average (EMA) is often added to sta-
bilize the training process. Let θl andθl′
respectively denote
the model parameters in the l-th iteration and the parameters
updated by an optimizer. The model parameters in the(l+1)-
th iteration can be calculated by
θl+1 =λθl + (1−λ)θl′
, (9)
whereλ is a hyperparameter in range [0, 1]. EMA stabilizes
the training process by smoothing old and new parameters.
Stochastic Depth (SD) [Huang et al. , 2016 ] is ﬁrst pro-
posed to train deep networks such as ResNet[He et al., 2016],
which drops the entire block as a regularization method. Sim-
ilarly, when training a vision transformer, stochastic depth
randomly leaves some samples to be 0 after an attention or
a FFN layer but before the residual connection. This step
can be viewed as randomly replacing the networks by iden-
tity function for some samples.
Fixing Resolution Discrepancy [Touvron et al., 2019] is to
relax the discrepancy between training and testing image size
resulted from random cropping in data augmentation. The
authors ﬁnd that upsampling the training data can mitigate
the discrepancy caused by different resolutions. This is why
many models are trained with a size of 384 or bigger.
5 Self-supervised Learning in Vision
Transformer
Self-Supervised Learning (SSL) trains a model as supervised
learning but only uses data itself to create labels instead
of manual annotation. SSL has a considerable advantage
over exploiting the data, especially useful for those extensive
datasets. It also helps the model learn essential information
lies in data and makes the model robust and transferable.
Recently, SSL in computer vision can be mainly catego-
rized into pretext tasks and contrastive learning. The former
is to design a particular job for a model to learn before ﬁne-
tuning on downstream tasks, e.g., predicting the rotation de-
gree, coloring, or solving the jigsaw puzzles. In contrast, the
latter generates similar features for the same-class data and
pushes away other negative samples. In the following, we in-
troduce several SSL methods used in the vision transformer.
SiT [Atito et al. , 2021 ] includes two pretext tasks with
the contrastive loss after passing input data through a vi-
sion transformer. These tasks include predicting the rota-
tion degree of (0, 90, 180, 270) and the image reconstruction.
The image is ﬁrst augmented and partitioned into different
patches. The rotation task is to match the predicting degree
and the actual degree of the input image. The reconstruc-
tion task is to reconstruct the augmented image back to the
original image. Finally, the contrastive loss maximizes the
similarity between the same inputs.
MoCoV3 [Chen et al. , 2021b ] is designed explicitly for
vision transformer based on V1 and V2 [He et al. , 2020;
Chen et al. , 2020 ]. Each image has two different versions
generated by data augmentation and the images of differ-
ent versions are fed into two different encoders. The model
then learns to reduce the difference between the two identi-
cal images and increases the distance of those negative sam-
ples, where the difference is measured by InfoNCE [Oord et
al., 2018]. Other modiﬁcations are 1) removing the memory
queue, which is able to reduce the requirement of a substan-
tial batch size, and 2) adopting the symmetrized loss. Sup-
pose the ﬁrst encoder outputs q1,q 2 and the second encoder
outputsk1,k 2, the symmetrized lossL is computed by:
L = infoNCE(q1,k 2) + infoNCE(q2,k 1). (10)
DINO [Caron et al., 2021] is also trained with InfoNCE but
with different methods. The inputs are cropped into global
and local views, where the global views have higher resolu-
tion. The teacher model can only see the global views while

--- PAGE 6 ---
the student model can utilize all the views. During the updat-
ing stage, the student model is updated by an optimizer, while
the teacher model updates the parameters using EMA with
the student model. To avoid collapsing, DINO adds centers,
which can be viewed as a bias term, to each teacher output
for helping the model generate the uniform distribution. The
centers are updated smoothly by the average of the teacher
outputs.
MoBY [Xie et al., 2021b] incorporates the training strate-
gies from MoCoV2 [Chen et al. , 2020 ] and BYOL [Grill
et al. , 2020]. Instead of using vanilla ViT as the backbone,
MoBY replaces it with Swin-Transformer [Liu et al., 2021].
Additionally, the updating strategy is similar to DINO. On top
of that, to avoid a large batch size, MoBY follows MoCoV2
to create memory queue for reusing the past features.
EsViT [Li et al. , 2022 ] uses a hierarchical transformer
for reducing the computational cost. Instead of using posi-
tional embeddings, EsViT uses the Relative Position Bias to
avoid the positional information being affected by the differ-
ent cropping resolutions. Furthermore, EsViT uses the same
updating method adopted by DINO and MoBY . On top of
that, EsViT adds extra regional-level tasks to attach the inter-
region relationships.
BEiT [Bao et al. , 2022] is designed based on BERT. The
images are separated into patches, which are tokenized into
different discrete values by training a discrete V AE[Ramesh
et al., 2021]. Afterward, the vision transformer are made to
predict the tokens of the masked patches. The ground truth
of the tokens are generated with the non-mask patches by a
discrete V AE trained in the ﬁrst stage.
MAE [He et al., 2021] is created based on method adopted
by autoencoder to train a vision transformer. Distinctly, the
input image is ﬁrst masked by up to 75%. These masking
strategies applied on images include random, block-wise, and
grid. Then, the masked images are encoded into features by
a ViT and the decoder decodes the features by another ViT
into the original non-mask images. Astonishingly, this strat-
egy ends up with an unprecedentedly high accuracy and the
masked images can be well reconstructed.
6 Challenges and Discussions
Although existing works have made a considerable success,
there are still lots of challenges left to be resolved. In the
following, several open challenges and future directions of
vision transformers are discussed.
Universal pre-trained weights. Vision transformers are in-
spired by the self-attention in Transformer, which is origi-
nally used for solving NLP problems. However, the adaption
from text to vision is not completely explored. One promising
direction is to ﬁnd out the universal pre-trained weights that
are suitable for different kinds of inputs, e.g., texts, images
or audio. Currently, [Li et al. , 2021a ] discuss the relation-
ship between texts and visions. More explorations on gen-
eral conditions enable us to unveil the mask of the underlying
principles of transformers.
Fixed input size. Although self-attention accepts varied
sequence lengths, positional embeddings require the ﬁxed
length for each input. One approach to deal with this issue
is by interpolation, which help expand or compress the em-
beddings with a given size. Nevertheless, this would cause
the information loss when the input size is extremely differ-
ent from the training size. Currently, the only feasible ap-
proach is to directly extract the features from convolutional
layers without adding positional embeddings. However, us-
ing only the convolutional layers lacks the global positional
information.
Robustness. It is important to test the robustness of a model
when the input image are altered or corrupted by some uncon-
trolled reasons. These alternations include brightness, back-
ground, blur, noise, digital artifacts, or even adversarial at-
tack. Despite that RVT examines the robustness of differ-
ent components, it only focuses on the vision transformer
architecture. Other aspects such as data augmentation or
learning objective are not explored yet. The former includes
what kinds of combination of data augmentation can resist
the noise inputs and the latter are associated with the learning
criterion that enables the model to ﬁlter out the noise attack.
Lightweight model for mobile devices. Since deep learn-
ing has gradually become popular in these years, more and
more manufacturers transplant the deep learning models into
mobile devices. However, due to the limitations of the size
and the cost, the computing resources within a mobile de-
vice are not suitable for running a vision transformer. There-
fore, reducing the model size is also an important topic for
extended usage on mobile devices. Currently, there are only
few publications [Mehta and Rastegari, 2022] focus on solv-
ing the related issue.
Feature Collapsing. The ability to extract the features
highly inﬂuence the model performance. As described in
Sec. 3.2, the original vision transformer is subjected to fea-
ture collapsing and cannot generate various representations,
which is a serious issue when training a deep vision trans-
former. Current methods often add additional modules (T2T-
ViT) or learnable parameters (DeepViT) to solve the problem,
which can cause overhead in inference time. Investigation on
other methods such as altering the architectures or training
strategies, adding additional criterion and adopting different
data augmentations are also promising directions for prevent-
ing the vision transformers from collapsing.
7 Conclusion
We present several vision transformer models and highlight
the innovative components. Speciﬁcally, variant architec-
tures are introduced to deal with weaknesses such as data-
hungry, low efﬁciency, and weak robustness. These ideas in-
clude transferring the inductive bias from CNN, adding local-
ity, strong data augmentation, cross-window information ex-
change, and reducing the computational cost. We also review
the training tricks, as well as self-supervised learning, which
trains datasets without requiring any labels but can even reach
a higher accuracy than that of the supervised methods. At the
end of our paper, we discuss some open challenges for the
future research.

--- PAGE 7 ---
References
[Ali et al., 2021] Alaaeldin Ali, Hugo Touvron, Mathilde
Caron, Piotr Bojanowski, Matthijs Douze, Armand Joulin,
Ivan Laptev, Natalia Neverova, Gabriel Synnaeve, Jakob
Verbeek, et al. Xcit: Cross-covariance image transform-
ers. NIPS, 2021.
[Arnab et al., 2021] Anurag Arnab, Mostafa Dehghani,
Georg Heigold, Chen Sun, Mario Lu ˇci´c, and Cordelia
Schmid. Vivit: A video vision transformer. InICCV, 2021.
[Atito et al., 2021] Sara Atito, Muhammad Awais, and Josef
Kittler. Sit: Self-supervised vision transformer. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2104.03602, 2021.
[Ba et al., 2016] Jimmy Lei Ba, Jamie Ryan Kiros, and Ge-
offrey E Hinton. Layer normalization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1607.06450, 2016.
[Bao et al., 2022] Hangbo Bao, Li Dong, Songhao Piao, and
Furu Wei. BEit: BERT pre-training of image transformers.
In ICLR, 2022.
[Brown et al., 2020] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ry-
der, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhari-
wal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, et al. Language models are few-shot
learners. NIPS, 33, 2020.
[Carion et al., 2020] Nicolas Carion, Francisco Massa,
Gabriel Synnaeve, Nicolas Usunier, Alexander Kirillov,
and Sergey Zagoruyko. End-to-end object detection with
transformers. In ECCV, 2020.
[Caron et al., 2021] Mathilde Caron, Hugo Touvron, Ishan
Misra, Herv´e J´egou, Julien Mairal, Piotr Bojanowski, and
Armand Joulin. Emerging properties in self-supervised vi-
sion transformers. In ICCV, 2021.
[Chen et al., 2020] Xinlei Chen, Haoqi Fan, Ross Girshick,
and Kaiming He. Improved baselines with momentum
contrastive learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.04297 ,
2020.
[Chen et al., 2021a] Chun-Fu Richard Chen, Quanfu Fan,
and Rameswar Panda. Crossvit: Cross-attention multi-
scale vision transformer for image classiﬁcation. InICCV,
2021.
[Chen et al., 2021b] Xinlei Chen, Saining Xie, and Kaiming
He. An empirical study of training self-supervised vision
transformers. In ICCV, 2021.
[Choromanski et al., 2021] Krzysztof Marcin Choromanski,
Valerii Likhosherstov, David Dohan, Xingyou Song, An-
dreea Gane, et al. Rethinking attention with performers.
In ICLR, 2021.
[Chu et al., 2021] Xiangxiang Chu, Zhi Tian, Yuqing Wang,
Bo Zhang, Haibing Ren, Xiaolin Wei, Huaxia Xia, and
Chunhua Shen. Twins: Revisiting the design of spatial
attention in vision transformers. NIPS, 2021.
[Cordonnier et al., 2020] Jean-Baptiste Cordonnier, Andreas
Loukas, and Martin Jaggi. On the relationship between
self-attention and convolutional layers. In ICLR, 2020.
[Cubuk et al., 2019] Ekin D. Cubuk, Barret Zoph, Dandelion
Mane, Vijay Vasudevan, and Quoc V . Le. Autoaugment:
Learning augmentation strategies from data. In CVPR,
2019.
[Cubuk et al., 2020] Ekin D Cubuk, Barret Zoph, Jonathon
Shlens, and Quoc V Le. Randaugment: Practical auto-
mated data augmentation with a reduced search space. In
CVPR, 2020.
[Devlin et al., 2018] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Ken-
ton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. Bert: Pre-training of
deep bidirectional transformers for language understand-
ing. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805, 2018.
[Dosovitskiy et al., 2021] Alexey Dosovitskiy, Lucas Beyer,
Alexander Kolesnikov, Dirk Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai,
et al. An image is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for
image recognition at scale. In ICLR, 2021.
[d’Ascoli et al., 2021] St´ephane d’Ascoli, Hugo Touvron,
Matthew L Leavitt, Ari S Morcos, Giulio Biroli, and Lev-
ent Sagun. Convit: Improving vision transformers with
soft convolutional inductive biases. In ICML, 2021.
[Fang et al., 2021] Yuxin Fang, Bencheng Liao, Xinggang
Wang, Jiemin Fang, Jiyang Qi, Rui Wu, Jianwei Niu, and
Wenyu Liu. You only look at one sequence: Rethinking
transformer in vision through object detection. In NIPS,
2021.
[Graham et al., 2021] Benjamin Graham, Alaaeldin El-
Nouby, Hugo Touvron, Pierre Stock, Armand Joulin,
Herv´e J ´egou, and Matthijs Douze. Levit: a vision trans-
former in convnet’s clothing for faster inference. InICCV,
2021.
[Grill et al., 2020] Jean-Bastien Grill, Florian Strub, Florent
Altch´e, Corentin Tallec, Pierre Richemond, et al. Boot-
strap your own latent-a new approach to self-supervised
learning. NIPS, 2020.
[Hassani et al., 2021] Ali Hassani, Steven Walton, Nikhil
Shah, Abulikemu Abuduweili, Jiachen Li, and Humphrey
Shi. Escaping the big data paradigm with compact trans-
formers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.05704, 2021.
[He et al., 2016] Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing
Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for image recog-
nition. In CVPR, 2016.
[He et al., 2020] Kaiming He, Haoqi Fan, Yuxin Wu, Sain-
ing Xie, and Ross Girshick. Momentum contrast for unsu-
pervised visual representation learning. In CVPR, 2020.
[He et al., 2021] Kaiming He, Xinlei Chen, Saining Xie,
Yanghao Li, Piotr Doll ´ar, and Ross Girshick. Masked
autoencoders are scalable vision learners. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2111.06377, 2021.
[Heo et al., 2021] Byeongho Heo, Sangdoo Yun, Dongyoon
Han, Sanghyuk Chun, Junsuk Choe, and Seong Joon Oh.
Rethinking spatial dimensions of vision transformers. In
ICCV, 2021.
[Hinton et al., 2015] Geoffrey Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, and
Jeff Dean. Distilling the knowledge in a neural network.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1503.02531, 2015.

--- PAGE 8 ---
[Huang et al., 2016] Gao Huang, Yu Sun, Zhuang Liu,
Daniel Sedra, and Kilian Q Weinberger. Deep networks
with stochastic depth. In ECCV, 2016.
[Li et al., 2021a] Qing Li, Boqing Gong, Yin Cui, Dan Kon-
dratyuk, Xianzhi Du, Ming-Hsuan Yang, and Matthew
Brown. Towards a uniﬁed foundation model: Jointly pre-
training transformers on unpaired images and text. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2112.07074, 2021.
[Li et al., 2021b] Shaohua Li, Xiuchao Sui, Xiangde Luo,
Xinxing Xu, Yong Liu, and Rick Goh. Medical image
segmentation using squeeze-and-expansion transformers.
In IJCAI, 2021.
[Li et al., 2021c] Yawei Li, Kai Zhang, Jiezhang Cao, Radu
Timofte, and Luc Van Gool. Localvit: Bringing locality
to vision transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.05707 ,
2021.
[Li et al., 2022] Chunyuan Li, Jianwei Yang, Pengchuan
Zhang, Mei Gao, Bin Xiao, Xiyang Dai, Lu Yuan, and
Jianfeng Gao. Efﬁcient self-supervised vision transform-
ers for representation learning. In ICLR, 2022.
[Liu et al., 2021] Ze Liu, Yutong Lin, Yue Cao, Han Hu,
Yixuan Wei, Zheng Zhang, Stephen Lin, and Baining Guo.
Swin transformer: Hierarchical vision transformer using
shifted windows. In ICCV, 2021.
[Mao et al., 2021] Xiaofeng Mao, Gege Qi, Yuefeng Chen,
Xiaodan Li, Ranjie Duan, Shaokai Ye, Yuan He, and Hui
Xue. Towards robust vision transformer. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2105.07926, 2021.
[Mehta and Rastegari, 2022] Sachin Mehta and Mohammad
Rastegari. Mobilevit: Light-weight, general-purpose, and
mobile-friendly vision transformer. In ICLR, 2022.
[Oord et al., 2018] Aaron van den Oord, Yazhe Li, and Oriol
Vinyals. Representation learning with contrastive predic-
tive coding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.03748, 2018.
[Peyrard et al., 2021] Maxime Peyrard, Beatriz Borges,
Kristina Gligori´c, and Robert West. Laughing heads: Can
transformers detect what makes a sentence funny? In IJ-
CAI, 2021.
[Radford et al., 2018] Alec Radford, Karthik Narasimhan,
Tim Salimans, and Ilya Sutskever. Improving language
understanding by generative pre-training. 2018.
[Ramesh et al., 2021] Aditya Ramesh, Mikhail Pavlov,
Gabriel Goh, Scott Gray, Chelsea V oss, Alec Radford,
Mark Chen, and Ilya Sutskever. Zero-shot text-to-image
generation. In ICML, 2021.
[Russakovsky et al., 2015] Olga Russakovsky, Jia Deng,
Hao Su, Jonathan Krause, Sanjeev Satheesh, Sean Ma,
Zhiheng Huang, et al. Imagenet large scale visual recogni-
tion challenge. International Journal of Computer Vision
(IJCV), 2015.
[Sun et al., 2017] Chen Sun, Abhinav Shrivastava, Saurabh
Singh, and Abhinav Gupta. Revisiting unreasonable effec-
tiveness of data in deep learning era. In ICCV, 2017.
[Touvron et al., 2019] Hugo Touvron, Andrea Vedaldi,
Matthijs Douze, and Herv ´e J ´egou. Fixing the train-test
resolution discrepancy. NIPS, 2019.
[Touvron et al., 2021a] Hugo Touvron, Matthieu Cord,
Matthijs Douze, Francisco Massa, Alexandre Sablay-
rolles, and Herv ´e J ´egou. Training data-efﬁcient image
transformers & distillation through attention. In ICML,
2021.
[Touvron et al., 2021b] Hugo Touvron, Matthieu Cord,
Alexandre Sablayrolles, Gabriel Synnaeve, and Herv ´e
J´egou. Going deeper with image transformers. In ICCV,
2021.
[Vaswani et al., 2017] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki
Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez,
Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you
need. In NIPS, 2017.
[Wang et al., 2021] Wenhai Wang, Enze Xie, Xiang Li,
Deng-Ping Fan, Kaitao Song, Ding Liang, Tong Lu, Ping
Luo, and Ling Shao. Pyramid vision transformer: A ver-
satile backbone for dense prediction without convolutions.
In ICCV, 2021.
[Xie et al., 2021a] Enze Xie, Wenjia Wang, Wenhai Wang,
Peize Sun, Hang Xu, Ding Liang, and Ping Luo. Segment-
ing transparent objects in the wild with transformer. In
IJCAI, 2021.
[Xie et al., 2021b] Zhenda Xie, Yutong Lin, Zhuliang Yao,
Zheng Zhang, Qi Dai, Yue Cao, and Han Hu. Self-
supervised learning with swin transformers.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2105.04553, 2021.
[Xiong et al., 2020] Ruibin Xiong, Yunchang Yang, Di He,
Kai Zheng, Shuxin Zheng, Chen Xing, Huishuai Zhang,
Yanyan Lan, Liwei Wang, and Tieyan Liu. On layer nor-
malization in the transformer architecture. In ICML, 2020.
[Yuan et al., 2021a] Kun Yuan, Shaopeng Guo, Ziwei Liu,
Aojun Zhou, Fengwei Yu, and Wei Wu. Incorporating con-
volution designs into visual transformers. In ICCV, 2021.
[Yuan et al., 2021b] Li Yuan, Yunpeng Chen, Tao Wang,
Weihao Yu, Yujun Shi, Zi-Hang Jiang, Francis EH Tay,
Jiashi Feng, and Shuicheng Yan. Tokens-to-token vit:
Training vision transformers from scratch on imagenet. In
ICCV, 2021.
[Zhang et al., 2021] Zizhao Zhang, Han Zhang, Long Zhao,
Ting Chen, and Tomas Pﬁster. Aggregating nested trans-
formers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.12723, 2021.
[Zhou et al., 2021] Daquan Zhou, Bingyi Kang, Xiaojie Jin,
Linjie Yang, Xiaochen Lian, Zihang Jiang, Qibin Hou, and
Jiashi Feng. Deepvit: Towards deeper vision transformer.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.11886, 2021.
[Zhu et al., 2021] Yiran Zhu, Xing Xu, Fumin Shen, Yanli Ji,
Lianli Gao, and Heng Tao Shen. Posegtac: Graph trans-
former encoder-decoder with atrous convolution for 3d hu-
man pose estimation. In IJCAI, 2021.

